# Baseball

Purpose: 
The purpose of the project is to produce an accurate predictor of a batted ball becoming a hit. It utilizes features such as the exit velocity, spin and launch angle of the batted ball to determine the appropriate label.

Method: 
Since the possible outcome space for the batted ball is either becoming a hit or not, a binary classification method can be used to produce the appropriate predictor. This also indiciates that the prodbability distribution function of the batted ball can be expressed via Bernoulli distribution as there are only two possible outcome. The Bernoulli distribution is given by formula p(y|x) = (p(x)^y)((1-p(x))^(1-y)) where p(x) is the probaility of label being 1 and since the sum of probability must be 1, the probability of label being 0 is 1-p(x). 

Since the y can only be 0 or 1 in binary classification setting, predicting p(x) would provide enough information to produce probability distribution function. MLE is used to estimate paramter p(X) such that it maximiszes probability of producing the dataset. In order to optimize and output accurate predictor, we first need to introduce sigmoid function, given by formula σ(x) = 1/(1+e^(-x)), to ensure that the probability is kept within [0,1] range. Thus, the Bernoulli distribution can be rewritten as p(y|x) = (σ(xw)^y)((1-σ(xw))^(1-y)). Thus, optimizing over this paramter using Maximum Likelihood Estimation(MLE) and negative log likelihood, the parameter w can be written by formula w = argmin -Σ(ylog(σ(xw)) + (1-y)log(1-σ(xw))). In order to find argument w that minimizes the function, we must take gradient of the function in respect of w to find local extrema. Since no closed form solutions exist, gradient descent method can be used to estimate w, which can be implemented using formula w(new) = w(old) - stepsize*gradient(w(old)) where gradient = Σ(σ(xw)-y)x, which can be repeated for T epochs.

Some improvements or additional features that can be added would be using mulitclass classification and add more labels such as batted ball becoming ground ball, fly ball, normal hit, double, triple or home run. Visual recognition algorithm can also be implemented to predict the batted ball to avoid having to input multiple features for prediction. 
